bring in our senior political analyst
now Maan bashara and M we've got the UN
today remembering the terrible loss of
life in Gaza 1001 of their employees
even as it remains polarized and
paralyzed at the top of the organization
and it can't stop any of these deaths no
as Secretary General gutterz said they
don't have the power and don't have the
money but the only thing they do have is
the voice and they are now more more
than before voicing U their uh
displeasure if not their condemnation of
what is going on and clearly the this
manifestation as it were of the flag is
a scream it's more than a voice it's
it's really a scream of help as well as
uh as a you know a condemnation of the
killing of the uh of their own staff you
know but but the question that that
keeps coming to mind uh the last five
weeks is why is it that that this little
naughty State Israel can be in such
grave violation of un resolutions un
Security Solutions can be in grave uh
violation of international
law can uh attack the UN Secretary
General personally for making a speech
saying none of this could happen in a
vacuum as if the the response is this
could happen in a vacuum you know so and
then the killing of the UN staff and so
on so forth and and then making all
these aggressive um apprehensive attacks
on the UN and the and it and its staff
it begs the question in the end
shouldn't be censured shouldn't be
frozen or something shouldn't the UN
take certain measures about a country
that is an affront not only to its Soul
and Spirit but it's also an enemy of its
own staff I wonder well an extension of
that is why does the US support it
wholeheartedly of course the US has uh
the politics and the policy and the
strategy the politics of course now it's
a it's a it's a scandal around the world
how lobbies in Washington tend to
influence politics and especially
foreign policy and the Israel Lobby
which should be distinguished from a
Jewish Lobby the Israel Lobby in
Washington which is a combination of
Evangelical Christians the military
industrial complex as well as various
radical Zionist organizations in America
all of them really have huge influence
on decision making especially in
Congress but also on the White House and
then there is the idea that uh you know
Biden and others have sold to the
American public that Israel is some kind
of an aircraft carrier in the
Mediterranean that without Israel if it
didn't exist we would have created
Israel because it serves our interest
interest you know this might have been
correct sometime between 1970 and
1984 maybe you know
arguably but certainly the past 30 or 40
years Israel has been a burden not an
asset to the United States which just
the last five weeks you know what have
shown us that how much of a liability it
has become the entire mid greater mid
least 57 Arab and Muslim majority
countries are standing against Israel
and asking the United states to stop
being so hypocritical and to use double
standard in his foreign policy and the
majority of public opinion including in
the United States and in the asking for
a ceasefire so really the the Biden
Administration knows that Israel is a
liability but continues to support it
because President Biden himself is has
been blinded by his so-called I'm a
Zionist although I'm a Christian and
boxing himself behind Netanyahu and just
a quick notice note about that by the
way way he was a vice president for8
years under Barack Obama and Barack
Obama spent his eight years trying to
decouple the mindset between the mind
the United States and Israel because the
United States is a superpower it's not
supposed to act like a little Rog State
and Biden was part and parcel of those
eight years uh of Barack uh Biden
Administration but now Biden is back
again coupling the mindsets and
repeating and supporting everything that
Israel says which is really is quite
paradoxical and quite damaging to
America standing in the Middle East and
Beyond